📌 Final Project Proposal (Final Draft)
🏥 Project Title

Hospital Patient Record Analyzer

🔍 Problem Statement

Problem: Hospitals collect a lot of patient information, but raw data is often hard to read and understand.
Hospitals need clear summaries of patient visits, doctor workload, and activity patterns to make faster decisions.
Our dataset helps address this by organizing patient visit records, doctors consulted, and other details so users can easily see trends in hospital operations.

🎯 Project Description

The Hospital Patient Record Analyzer is a Python program that reads patient information from a JSON file called hospital.json and organizes details such as the 
number of visits,the doctors each patient consulted, and basic activity patterns. The project aims to help users easily search and analyze patient or doctor 
information through clear summaries, visit counts, and rankings. Its main goal is to practice using Python with JSON data, loops, and conditions, 
while showing how hospitals can use organized data to track frequent patients,identify busy doctors, and quickly access important insights.

⚙️ Planned Features
1.) Show full patient records

Displays name, number of visits, and doctors consulted.

2.) Search patient by name

Finds and shows details about a specific patient.

3.) Show doctors consulted by a patient

Lists all doctors assigned to that patient.

4.) Identify the most visited doctor

Shows which doctor has the highest number of total visits.

5.) Find the patient with the most visits

Displays the name and visit count of the top patient.

6.) Show top 3 most visited doctors

Ranks doctors based on total visits.

7.) Show average visits per patient

Computes total visits divided by number of patients.

⌨️ Planned Inputs and Outputs
Inputs

Patient name

Doctor name (for ranking features)

Category or field depending on menu choices

Outputs

Patient visit count

Doctors consulted

Most visited doctor

Patient with the most visits

Summary statistics

Top 3 doctor rankings

🧠 Logic Plan

You may choose ONE logic format.

Option 1: Pseudocode
Start Program
Load JSON file "hospital.json"

Display menu:
1. Show all patient records
2. Search patient by name
3. Show doctors consulted by a patient
4. Show most visited doctor
5. Show patient with most visits
6. Show top 3 most visited doctors
7. Show average visits per patient
8. Exit program

Ask user for choice

IF choice == 1:
    Display all patient records

ELSE IF choice == 2:
    Ask for patient name
    Search JSON
    Show patient details or "Not found"

ELSE IF choice == 3:
    Ask for patient name
    Show doctors consulted

ELSE IF choice == 4:
    Compute total visits per doctor
    Display most visited doctor

ELSE IF choice == 5:
    Identify patient with highest visits
    Display result

ELSE IF choice == 6:
    Sort doctors by visit count
    Display top 3

ELSE IF choice == 7:
    Compute average visits
    Display result

ELSE IF choice == 8:
    End program

Repeat menu until user chooses Exit
End Program

Option 2 
Flowchart: 

